What is JavaScript?
an object-oriented computer programming language commonly used to create interactive effects within web browsers.

First appeared: December 4, 1995
Stable release: ECMAScript 2017
Typing discipline: Dynamic duck

Designed by Brendan Eich

Paradigm: Multi-paradigm: object-oriented (prototype-based), imperative, functional, event-driven

History of Javascript 
HTML and CSS are markup languages. Markup languages are used to describe and define elements within a document. JavaScript is a programming language. Programming languages are used to communicate instructions to a machine. Programming languages can be used to control the behavior of a machine and to express algorithms.

The JavaScript Console Step by Step
Recommend to start using the Chrome Google
Any random website and open up developer tools
Select inspect, and then click on console
If you like keyboard shortcuts, then use cmd+option+J (Mac)
Keyboard shortcuts for opening devtools

Write your first line of JavaScript code; starting with your name
If just writing your name will result in an error, so go with
“Demetra” - that data type is called a string by putting in a quote. 

How to create an alert window that says hello how are you…
alert(“Hello, Demetra! How are you?!”);

To run more alert windows; it is best to practice in sublime or atom (text editor) otherwise it will cause more conflict with the javascript console. 

Developer tools on different browsers

Google chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Safari, Opera
	•	Command + Option + i (Mac)

Google Chrome
The Chrome DevTools are a set of web authoring and debugging tools built into Google Chrome. Use the DevTools to iterate, debug and profile your site. To learn more, click here.

To open Chrome DevTools, either right-click on any page element and select Inspect or open the Chrome settings menu in the top-right corner of your browser window and select More Tools > Developer Tools. Alternatively, you can use the shortcuts:
	•	Command + Option + i (Mac)
	•	Ctrl + Shift + i (Windows/Linux).

Mozilla Firefox
Firefox Developer Tools allow you to examine, edit, and debug HTML, CSS, and JavaScript on the desktop and on mobile. Also, you can download a version of of Firefox called Firefox Developer Edition that is tailored for developers, featuring the latest Firefox features and experimental developer tools. To learn more, click here.

To open Firefox Developer Tools, either right-click on any page element and select Inspect Element or open the Firefox settings menu in the top-right corner of your browser window and select Developer. Alternatively, you can use the shortcuts:
	•	Command + Option + i (Mac)
	•	Ctrl + Shift + i (Windows/Linux).

Internet Explorer
If you use Internet Explorer, then you can access F12 developer tools by simply pressing F12. The features vary between versions, but starting at Internet Explorer 8 remain pretty consistent. Below, we've linked to documentation for each version, but if you've upgraded to Microsoft Edge, then check the next section.
	•	Internet Explorer 8
	•	Internet Explorer 9
	•	Internet Explorer 10
	•	Internet Explorer 11

Microsoft Edge
Microsoft Edge introduces great new improvements to the F12 developer tools seen in Internet Explorer. The new tools are built in TypeScript, and are always running, so no reloads are required. In addition, F12 developer tools documentation is now fully available on GitHub.

Just like Internet Explorer, to open developer tools in Microsoft Edge simply press F12. To learn more, click here.

Safari
For any Mac users, Safari includes Web Inspector, a powerful tool that makes it easy to modify, debug, and optimize a website for peak performance and compatibility on both platforms. To learn more, click here.

To access Safari's Web Development Tools, enable the Develop menu in Safari’s Advanced preferences. Once enabled, you can right-click on any page element and select Inspect Element to open Web Development Tools or use the shortcut Command + Option + i.

Opera
Fast, lean and powerful, Opera comes pre-packed with a fully-featured suite of developer tools. Named Opera Dragonfly, it is designed to make your job easier. To learn more, click here.

Launch Opera Dragonfly with the following keyboard shortcuts:
	•	Command + Option + i (Mac)
	•	Ctrl + Shift + i (Windows/Linux).

Alternatively, you can target a specific element by right-clicking in the page and selecting Inspect Element.

———

console.log is used to display content to the JavaScript console. Run the following code in the console:
console.log("hiya friend!");
Prints: "hiya friend!"
Congratulations! You performed the log action on the debugging console.
The message you’ve logged is "hiya friend!". hiya friend! is a string (a sequence of characters).

(See 10-05-console-log.png for example)

—

Loop
block of JavaScript code that loops through the numbers 0 through 9 and prints them out to the console:
for (var i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  console.log(i);
}

Prints: 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

(See 10-05-console-log-loop.png for example) 
